 
#Overview

1.Unavoidable Facts-
Canada is the nation of immigrants. People come here from different countries. As every nation have their
own rules and regulation, their way to deal with waste are also different. So, when they commute to Canada,
they are unaware of waste sorting plan in Canadian community. A research shows that each year Canada is
producing nearly 31 million tones of garbage, and among all the other country’s waste per capita of the
world this is highest. Along with reducing the amount of waste Canadian waste management also imposing the
idea of sorting of waste, so people are provided with multiple coloured bins to put waste according to type
of material. But because of lack of awareness individuals are unable to meet the expectation of waste 
management community.



Reasons and consequences of this Issue-

Although municipal communities are putting efforts to solve this problem by assigning volunteer and providing
booklets to each and every house yearly, so that each person can read and understand about the way they are 
supposed to deal with the different types of garbage. But the idea of providing booklets to citizens is not 
that successful as today’s hectic schedules had left with no time for people to read those booklets and 
understand about managing with different types of wastages. People don’t go through all the contents provided
in the waste management book, so they don’t get enough knowledge and ends up throwing recyclable stuff in garbage
after scratching their heads for a while. Ultimately, all the garbage including recyclable stuff goes to 
landfill, which leads to produce large amount of methane that contributes to greenhouse gasses more than emission
of carbon dioxide. Also, sometimes individuals threw garbage stuff into recycle bins or kitchen waste bins that 
requires tough sorting in the end. This action not only effects environment but money and resources too, as 
municipalities spend huge amount of money to handle these wastes.






Thus, we come to the idea of making a digital device to help people to get required knowledge.



