Introduction:

Canada is the nation of immigrants. People come here from different countries. As every nation have their own rules and
regulation, their way to deal with waste are also different. So, when they commute to Canada, they are unaware of waste 
sorting plan in Canadian community. A research shows that each year Canada is producing nearly 31 million tones of garbage,
and among all the other country’s waste per capita of the world this is highest. Along with reducing the amount of waste 
Canadian waste management also imposing the idea of sorting of waste, so people are provided with multiple coloured bins 
to put waste according to type of material. But because of lack of awareness individuals are unable to meet the expectation
of waste management community.
  
Although municipal communities are putting efforts to solve this problem by assigning volunteer and providing booklets to
each and every house yearly, so that each person can read and understand about the way they are supposed to deal with the
different types of garbage. But the idea of providing booklets to citizens is not that successful as today’s hectic 
schedules had left with no time for people to read those booklets and understand about managing with different types of
wastages. People don’t go through all the contents provided in the waste management book, so they didn’t get enough 
knowledge and ends up throwing recyclable stuff in garbage after scratching their heads for a while. Ultimately, all
the garbage including recyclable stuff goes to landfill, which leads to produce large amount of methane that contributes
to greenhouse gasses more than emission of carbon dioxide. Also, sometimes individuals threw garbage stuff into recycle 
bins or kitchen waste bins that requires tough sorting in the end. This action not only effects environment but money and
resources too, as municipalities spend huge amount of money to handle these wastes. 

In this era of technology, we are surrounded with smart gadgets all around. But unfortunately, we do not have any gadget 
that can provide us information about sorting of garbage, recycle and kitchen waste stuff. Even though we are in 21st century
but for this specific thing people are still dependent on those conventional way of using paper books to get information about
different kind of wastes which are delivered to each house every year by the waste management departments. So, we decided to 
make a digital device that will get rid of those paper books, the “Smart waste management device” that will help people to get
information about sorting of different kind of waste. This device will help people to put the garbage according to the assigned
bins in a smart digital way rather than going through those long community waste management books. Therefore, there will be 
less amount of waste to pickup and by this way municipalities can save money as they don’t have to sort that garbage from the
recycle waste stuff and vice versa. 

Thus, this idea of using smart waste management device is going to be more easy and benificial for both people and municipal
corporations. Also, we will be making our environment safe and healthy by so many ways like we will be saving a lot of paper
as we do not those heavy and long traditional books.

Description

The Smart waste management device will be a digital copy that will consist community waste management guidelines and will 
guide user digitally about the different types of stuff and in which bin that particular stuff has to go after being used 
by the person.
So, this device will consist of a processor that will be a Raspberry pi 4 in this case and the user will be interacting 
with the device by a touch screen that will be a 7-inch touch display.Raspberry pi will be connected to the screens through HDMI cables(HDMI to Micro HDMI).
We will use NOOBS to install the Raspbian operating system through a SD card. Also, Raspberry pi has inbuilt wi-fi by which we can connect to the available wi-fi connection
We can interact with 2 screens at a time as there are 2 ports of Micro HDMI in the latest version of Raspberry pi

Components required:
    1) Raspberry pi 4 model B.
    2) Two 7 inch IPS Capacitive Touch screen displays.
    3) A Lithium Polymer battery(11.1V,3000Mah)
    4) Pololu Step down regulator(5V, 5A)
    5) Two HDMI to micro HDMI cables( to connect displays with raspberry pi 4)
    6) Charging adapter for the battery

Procedure:
#Setting_up_Raspberry pi

1. First of all, we formatted our SD card using SD card formatter tool, that can be download from sdcard.org.

2. To install Raspberry Pi Operating system, we used NOOBS (New out of box system). This is available on Raspberrpi.org. Downloaded file
   was in zip format so we first uncompressed the file and then copy all the files from uncompressed file to SD card. Thus, our Sd card 
   was prepared to use to install Raspberry Pi operating system.
   
3. After inserting the micro SD card to raspberry Pi 4’s SD card socket.

4. When we checked all the connections (power supply to Raspberry Pi, R pi to mouse, keyboard and HDMI), it’s the time to start R pi,
   it took a little to start the screen, then a dialog box of NOOBS installer appeared. It gave us two options from which we selected 
   install Raspbian. 
   
5. When the installation was done, we clicked ok to reboot and load the Raspbian Operating system.

6. Then we selected the time zone and preferred language.

7. Choose the Wi-Fi network which we are going to use and entered the password to use the internet service on raspberry pi.

8. As, we are using a touchscreen display for our project, we set up the virtual keyboard in this, so that we don’t need 
   the USB keyboard anymore. To do this we have used following commands in Terminal window of Raspberry Pi-
   -sudo apt-get update
   -sudo apt-get upgrade
   -sudo apt-get install matchbox-keyboard
   -sudo reboot
     We assed the virtual keyboard from Menu-Accessories-Keyboard.

9. We did some change in appearance of home screen but these were optional. :-)

#Powering_up_the_gadget

1. To power up Raspberry pi and two touch screen displays, we need a battery and a voltage regulator. As, we are using 2 screens so there should be a lithium polymer battery required, having capacity (11.1V,3000Mah).
2. To step down the power we will use a regulator so that our device will get the needed amount of power. Then, we connect output pins of the battery with input pins of regulator(VIN, GND) 
   After that Raspberry pi can be connected to the output pins of regulator (VOUT, GND). 
   


